In CSS, the styles that are applied to HTML elements depend on three fundamental concepts.

Inheritance
Specificity
Cascade
2.1 CSS Inheritance
The mechanism through which the value of certain CSS properties is passed on from parent elements to child elements is called Inheritance.

2.1.1 Parent Element
If the HTML elements are placed inside the other HTML element, then the outer HTML element is called the parent element of the HTML elements inside it.

HTML
From the above Code Snippet, we can say:

The HTML div element is the parent element of the HTML h1 and p elements.
The HTML p element is the parent element of the HTML a element.
2.1.2 Child Element
An HTML element that is directly inside the parent element is called the child element of that parent element.

HTML
From the above Code Snippet, we can say:

The HTML h1 and p elements are the child elements of the HTML div element.
The HTML a element is the child element of the HTML p element.

CSS properties can be categorized into two types:

Inherited properties
Non-inherited properties
2.1.3 Inherited Properties
If the CSS properties applied to the parent element are inherited by the child elements, then they are called Inherited properties.

Some of the CSS Inherited Properties are:-

Text related Properties

font-family
font-style
font-weight
text-align
List related Properties

list-style-type
color property and many more.

2.1.4 Non-inherited Properties
If the CSS properties applied to the parent element are not inherited by the child elements, then they are called Non-inherited properties.

Some of the CSS Non-inherited properties are:

CSS Box Properties

width
height
margin
padding
border-style
border-width
border-color
border-radius
CSS Background Properties

background-image
background-color
background-size
text-decorationand many more.
